RFC 0014: New Intrinsic Function to Convert Template Block to JSON String (#76)
aws-cloudformation/cfn-language-discussion: RFCs/0014-ToJsonString.md

                        "y": 7,
                        "width": 3,
                        "height": 3,
                        "properties": { "markdown": "Hello world" }
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## YAML
```yaml
MyDashboard:
    Type: AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard
    Properties:
        DashboardBody:
            Fn::ToJsonString:
                start: "-PT6H"
                periodOverride: inherit
                widgets:
                    - type: text
                    x: 0
                    y: 7
                    width: 3
                    height: 3
                    properties:
                        markdown: Hello world
```

### Short Form Syntax
```yaml
MyDashboard:
    Type: AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard
    Properties:
        DashboardBody:
            !ToJsonString:
                start: "-PT6H"
                periodOverride: inherit
                widgets:
                    - type: text
                    x: 0
                    y: 7
                    width: 3
                    height: 3
                    properties:
                        markdown: Hello world
```

> # Motivation

Reviewer: I think we decided to change our template to move the motivation section above examples

A CloudFormation user may want to use JSON strings as input to a resource property. For example, `AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard` requires a JSON string for the `DashboardBody` attribute. A user may even want to use a JSON string as input to attributes where only a general string is required, such as in `SecretString` of `AWS::SecretsManager::Secret`.

> Today, this can only be accomplished through the use of external tools to convert object bodies to JSON strings, or use workarounds such as YAML multiline syntax. Having a feature to automate this transformation can provide various benefits, such as improving development workflow, improving code readability, or being able to utilize JSON/YAML syntax highlighting in text editors.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should explain a bit more here what the benefit of this feature in Yaml templates is. (Yaml multiline is a nice workaround, but IDEs and text editors treat the content as generic text, not yaml, so there is generally no syntax highlighting or validation)

Author: I can add a bit more explaining this limitation with YAML multiline.

Open Github request regarding this: https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-coverage-roadmap/issues/78

# Details

`Fn::ToJsonString` is an intrinsic function that takes in a template block as input and converts it into an escaped JSON string.

* It will be restricted to only be used as the value of string-type resource properties.
* Intrinsic functions (e.g. `Fn::If`, `Ref`) or pseudo parameters (e.g. `AWS::NoValue`) can be used within the input template block. The input template block will be processed by the intrinsic functions and pseudo parameters before it is converted to a string (i.e. the resolved value of the intrinsic function is converted to the output string, and not the intrinsic function itself).
* Conversion will always retain the same order of key-value pairs such that the converted strings of the same input template block are guaranteed to not change.
* The following pseudo parameters will be supported:
    * `AWS::AccountId`, `AWS::Region`, `AWS::Partition`, `AWS::NoValue`

> # Limitation

Reviewer 2: What is the cause of these limitations?

Author: These are short-term limitations due to implementation constraints.

> * YAML is a superset of JSON, so there are a few features in YAML that can not be converted to JSON due to their differences. For example, comments are supported in YAML but not JSON. This can potentially be a confusing developer experience if the developer is not aware of these limitations and have different expectations.

Reviewer 3: Can we be explicit about what happens with unsupported yaml features?
eg. I would like it to work even if there are comments inside the nested yaml.

Use case:

```yaml
MyDashboard:
    Type: AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard
    Properties:
        DashboardBody:
            !ToJsonString:
                start: "-PT6H"  # 6 hours ago
[...]
```

Author: Yes, the description here can be more clear. Your example with using comments in the yaml block should still be considered valid, but the json string it converts into will lose that comment (as the json data format does not support comments).

* Unsupported pseudo parameters:

>     * `AWS::StackId`, `AWS::StackName`, `AWS::NotificationArns`, `AWS::URLSuffix`

Reviewer 3: I can see cases where these would be useful to have (eg. in the dashboard example: to create a text widget with a link back to the stack)

Reviewer 4: The `AWS::StackId`, `AWS::StackName`, and `AWS::URLSuffix` pseudo parameters will be supported, but the `AWS::NotificationARNs` pseudo parameter will not be supported. Will update the RFC accordingly.

* Conversion will always retain the same order of key-value pairs such that the converted strings of the same input template block are guaranteed to not change.
* The following pseudo parameters will be supported:
    * `AWS::AccountId`, `AWS::Region`, `AWS::Partition`, `AWS::NoValue`, `AWS::StackId`, `AWS::StackName`, `AWS::URLSuffix`

# Limitation

* YAML is a superset of JSON, meaning there are features supported in YAML but not in JSON. Most notable is YAML's inline comment feature which does not have an equivalent in JSON. If `Fn::ToJsonString` is used on a YAML template block that contains comments, the comments will be automatically stripped out when converted to JSON. This can potentially be a confusing developer experience if the developer is not aware of these limitations and have different expectations.
* Unsupported pseudo parameters:
    * `AWS::NotificationARNs`

> * The object passed to the `Fn::ToJsonString` intrinsic function must be either a `Map` or an `Array`

Reviewer: Nitpick: Isn't the term `Object` more common than `Map` when talking about Json? For yaml, both Map and object seem to be used.
```suggestion
* The object passed to the `Fn::ToJsonString` intrinsic function must be either an `Object` or an `Array`. Simple types such as number, boolean or string are not supported.
```
